Add `regexp/no-optional-assertion` rule (#135)
ota-meshi/eslint-plugin-regexp: docs/rules/no-optional-assertion.md

---
pageClass: "rule-details"
sidebarDepth: 0
title: "regexp/no-optional-assertion"
description: "disallow optional assertions"
---
# regexp/no-optional-assertion

> disallow optional assertions

- :exclamation: <badge text="This rule has not been released yet." vertical="middle" type="error"> ***This rule has not been released yet.*** </badge>

## :book: Rule Details

> Assertions that as quantified in some way can be considered optional, if the
> quantifier as a minimum of zero.
> 
> A simple example is the following pattern: `/a(?:$)*b/`. The end-of-string
> assertion will obviously reject but if that happens, it will simply be ignored
> because of the quantifier. The assertion is essentially optional, serving no
> function whatsoever.
> 
> More generally, an assertion is optional, if the concatenation of all possible
> paths that start at the start of a zero-quantified element, end at the end of
> that element, and contain the assertion does not consume characters.
> 
> Here's an example of that: `a(?:foo|(?<!-)(?:-|\b))*b`. The `\b` is optional.
> The lookbehind is not optional because following group can consume a character.
> 
> The presence of optional assertions don't change the meaning of the pattern, so
> they are dead code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Assertions that are quantified (directly or indirectly) can be considered optional if the quantifier has a minimum of zero.

A simple example is the following pattern: `/a(?:$)*b/`. The `$` assertion will reject but if that happens, it will simply be ignored because of the `*` quantifier. The assertion is optional, serving no function whatsoever.

More generally, an assertion is optional, if there exists a parent quantifier with a minimum of zero such that all possible paths of the quantified element that contain the assertion do not consume characters.

Here's an example: `a(?:foo|(?<!-)(?:-|\b))*b`. The `\b` is optional. However, the lookbehind `(?<!-)` is not optional because the group `(?:-|\b)` right after it can consume a character.

Optional assertions don't affect the pattern in any way. They are essentially dead code.
```
